Cambodian leader Hun Sen on Friday rejected opposition parties demands for talks outside the country, accusing them of trying to internationalize the political crisis. Government and opposition parties have asked King Norodom Sihanouk to host a summit meeting after a series of post-election negotiations between the two opposition groups and Hun Sen's party to form a new government failed. Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy have charged that Hun Sen's victory in the elections was achieved through widespread fraud. 
King Norodom Sihanouk has declined requests to chair a summit of Cambodia's top political leaders, saying the meeting would not bring any progress in deadlocked negotiations to form a government. Cambodian leader Hun Sen's ruling party and the two-party opposition had called on the monarch to lead top-level talks, but disagreed on its location. Papa will not preside over any summit meeting between the three parties, whether it is held in Phnom Penh or Beijing, because such a meeting will certainly achieve no result, Sihanouk wrote in an Oct. 
Cambodia's two-party opposition asked the Asian Development Bank Monday to stop providing loans to the incumbent government, which it calls illegal. Negotiations to form the next government have become deadlocked, and opposition party leaders Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy are out of the country following threats of arrest from strongman Hun Sen. Hun Sen complained Monday that the opposition was trying to make its members return an international issue. 
Cambodia's ruling party responded Tuesday to criticisms of its leader in the U.S. The Cambodian People's Party criticized a non-binding resolution passed earlier this month by the U.S. House of Representatives calling for an investigation into violations of international humanitarian law allegedly committed by Hun Sen. Events mentioned in the resolution include Hun Sen's coup last year against his co-prime minister, Prince Norodom Ranariddh, and his violent crackdown in September against anti-government demonstrations. 
Cambodia's leading opposition party ruled out sharing the presidency of Parliament with its arch foe Saturday, insisting it alone must occupy the top position in the legislative body. Disputes over the presidency have been a major stumbling block in talks between the two-party opposition bloc and the Cambodian People's Party to form a new government. The prince's party, in a statement dated Friday and seen Saturday, said such a scenario was unconstitutional. 
Cambodia's bickering political parties broke a three-month deadlock Friday and agreed to a coalition government leaving strongman Hun Sen as sole prime minister, King Norodom Sihanouk announced. In a long-elusive compromise, opposition leader Prince Norodom Ranariddh will become president of the National Assembly resulting from disputed elections in July, even though Hun Sen's party holds a majority of 64 seats in the 122-member chamber. Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party dropped insistence on a joint assembly chairmanship shared by Ranariddh and party boss Chea Sim, the current speaker. 
Cambodian politicians expressed hope Monday that a new partnership between the parties of strongman Hun Sen and his rival, Prince Norodom Ranariddh, in a coalition government would not end in more violence. Their arguments turned bloody last year when Hun Sen ousted Ranariddh in a coup. The prince fled Cambodia and did not return until a few months before elections in July. Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party narrowly won the polls, but a strong second-place finish by Ranariddh's FUNCINPEC gave the royalist party leverage in post-election negotiations. 
Cambodian leader Hun Sen has guaranteed the safety and political freedom of all politicians, trying to ease the fears of his rivals that they will be arrested or killed if they return to the country. The assurances were aimed especially at Sam Rainsy, leader of a vocally anti-Hun Sen opposition party, who was forced to take refuge in the U.N. offices in September to avoid arrest after Hun Sen accused him of being behind a plot against his life. 
Worried that party colleagues still face arrest for their politics, opposition leader Sam Rainsy sought further clarification Friday of security guarantees promised by strongman Hun Sen. Sam Rainsy wrote in a letter to King Norodom Sihanouk that he was eager to attend the first session of the new National Assembly on Nov. 25, but complained that Hun Sen's assurances were not strong enough to ease concerns his party members may be arrested upon their return to Cambodia. 
King Norodom Sihanouk on Tuesday praised agreements by Cambodia's top two political parties previously bitter rivals to form a coalition government led by strongman Hun Sen. In a short letter sent to news agencies, the king said he had received copies of cooperation agreements signed Monday that will place Hun Sen and his Cambodian People's Party in firm control of fiscal and administrative functions in the government. The protocol on cooperation between the CPP and FUNCINPEC will certainly bring peace and progress to our nation and people, Sihanouk wrote. 
